README.md, before:

<h1 align="center"> &#127814 Welcome to GitGarden &#127814 </h1>

![titlePage](phase2/assets/titlePage.png)

Our project is a medium for **connecting produce farmers to distributors of their products**. The target audiences are farmers and distributors looking to expand their network. The farmers and distributors indicate the prices and quantities of the produce they are willing to sell and buy, respectively.


### System Requirements

- This program is developed in `Java` using [IntelliJ](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/) as the IDE
- Build with `Maven`.
- Uses Java GUI as the user interface.
- Unit Tests are written with [Junit](https://junit.org/junit5/).
- Uses `json` files for database storage with [gson](https://sites.google.com/site/gson/gson-user-guide) dependencies


### Documentations

- For program usage, please refer to: [Specification](phase2/specification.md)
- For design document, please refer to [Design Document](phase2/design_document.md)
- For member contributions, please refer to [Progress Report](phase2/progress_report.md)

Commit message:

added program setup to readme

README.md, after:

<h1 align="center"> &#127814 Welcome to GitGarden &#127814 </h1>

![titlePage](phase2/assets/titlePage.png)

Our project is a medium for **connecting produce farmers to distributors of their products**. The target audiences are farmers and distributors looking to expand their network. The farmers and distributors indicate the prices and quantities of the produce they are willing to sell and buy, respectively.


## System Requirements

- This program is developed in `Java` using [IntelliJ](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/) as the IDE
- Build with `Maven`.
- Uses Java GUI as the user interface.
- Unit Tests are written with [Junit](https://junit.org/junit5/).
- Uses `json` files for database storage with [gson](https://sites.google.com/site/gson/gson-user-guide) dependencies


## Program Setup

1. Clone this repo to your local device.
2. Install required dependencies (please refer to requirements above).
3. Navigate to the folder: `src/main/java/Client`.
4. Open the `Driver.java` file.
5. Run and build the project with the main method.
6. Please refer to [specification](phase2/specification.md) for detailed usage after the program starts.


## Documentations

- For program walk through, please refer to: [Specification](phase2/specification.md)
- For design document, please refer to [Design Document](phase2/design_document.md)
- For member contributions, please refer to [Progress Report](phase2/progress_report.md)
